# Agenda 22.11.2024

## Main goals

- finish tron
  - 
- improve tron so it is better than the original which we are copying
  - power ups (how to make as simple as possible)

## Ideas to learn

- when creating something similar as already made - copy as much as possible
  - copy player code / duplicate the whole player
  - copy code from one sprite to another when needed 
    - also copy when I need similar code but not exactly the same and just change few things

## Notes

- it is possible to put only a costume to backpack
- sometimes the color detection can make problems
  - then just reset and try again or try to change the color a bit

- how to solve head on collision?

## 0. Riddle with repeat until

- which code is the right one?

## 1. Finish tron

### 1.0 Stop the player from being able to commit suicide

- only enable turn when costume is bike and he is not pointing in opposite direction

### 1.1 Add second player

- duplicate the first player
- copy the costume of the other (blue) player
- in the duplicated player
  - change costume to the other (blue) player costume and adjust position
  - make him draw with other (blue) color
  - make them both explode also on the other (blue) color
  - change controls to wasd

### 1.2 Score system

- how to count score? ask kids
  - idea: I get score when opponent explodes

### 1.3 Round system

1. just start screen
    - we need the round only to start after button clicked

- game over screen with play again button
- how to make the button? ask kids

- button - something to click on that can also send messages
- background - so we cannot see the cars etc.

- how to start each round
  - the code for the round will react on a message - start_round

- on start (green flag) we show buttons and background
  - when click on button -> send the start_round message and hide itself
  - how can we also hide the background when button clicked?

2. add restart game screen
   - reuse the start screen (maybe different costume for the start game button)
   - when player dies, the button and background has to know about it. How can we achieve that? -> messages

- tricky part: WE NEED TO STOP THE OTHER PLAYER SO HE DOESN'T DIE WHILE THE MENU IS OPEN!

- bonus: add some time before the restart game screen opens so the players can enjoy the death of the other player

### 1.4 Improving changeability of game mechanics using variables

- scenario: let us say we want to change the time before restart screen to 3 second (longer enjoying death)
  - we just change the button time -> what happens when we test?
  - then also change the background -> is it good now?
- problem: we have multiple places where the numbers always have to be the same
- solution: use a variable -> all the pieces of code will look what is in the box and use that time

### 1.5 Power ups

TODO: finish this