# 13.12.2024

## Main goals

- show magic with binary error correction
  - what does it have to do with computers?
  - where is it useful in real world?
    - sending information over network (transaction details)
- finish space shooter game
  - allow shooting only after shoot key is released
- functions as a named piece of code
    - for clearer and more readable code


## 0. Riddle on bouncey movement

- [project link](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1109965299/)

- what code will make the ball bounce?
  - show what the code is supposed to do by dragging the ball to not reveal the correct code

- what will bouncy ball do in different scenarios
  - already on edge
  - starting somewhere in the middle of the screen

## 1. Magic with binary error correction

[website link](https://www.csfieldguide.org.nz/en/chapters/coding-error-control/the-parity-magic-trick/)

- have learned magic over the last week
- can detect things that happen without seeing them
- demonstrate by letting them create a four by four square of cards flipped up or down
- then I leave the room
- they will be allowed to flip exactly one card
- I will then come back and tell them which card was flipped without seeing them doing it

- use 30 cards - 5x6 rectangle

## 2. Finish space shooter game

- [project link](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1109957789/)

- do they like that it shoots when we hold space?
  - how can we get rid of it?
  - remember if we are allowed to shoot in a variable
    - if we shot and we didn't release the button -> we don't want to allow
  - first just show how to disallow without resetting the variable back
  - can they figure out how to do the reset?

- how to make the shots timed?
  - only allow shoot after some time
  - use timer
  - we can reuse the code from above
    - what should the timer do when we shoot? (we have to start timing + disallow player to shoot)
    - when do we allow player to shoot (after the timer has passed some number)

- make enemies move
  - random y-position on start
  - random direction on start
  - use if on edge bounce

- make bats hit player
  - subtract player lives
  - delete bat

- make bats detect when they are shot
  - add player score
  - delete bat
  - BONUS: bat death animation
  - BONUS2: also use bat flying animation

- make bats disappear also when touching our side of the screen
  - we can't use if touching edge

- add game over screens 
  - win screen
  - lose screen