# Agenda 15.11.2024

## Main goal

- revise how variables work
- notice what shapes of the blocks tell us about the blocks
- work on some game project with PLANNING involved

- maybe some drawing shapes practice so then they can do the game on their own if they learn fast

## 0. Riddle on variables: same block does different things

- [link](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1092536401/)
  - now the 2nd exercise on the bottom

- stress that all the say blocks look exactly the same
  - they do different things! isn't that magic?

- someobody should explain what happens
- somebody else should explain why it happens

## 1. Small showcase of block shapes

- did they notice the blocks have different shapes
- what kinds of shapes do they know?
  - puzzle
  - reporter
  - condition
  - event
  - control
- can they tall what each shape means?
  - puzzle
    - does something
  - reporter
    - gives us some value (string,number)
  - condition
    - gives us value (true,false)
  - event
    - listens until the event happens and then runs all puzzle blocks below
  - control
    - tells when certain blocks should run or how many times they should run
- why can some shape fit into some place but other shape cannot?
  - a condition is a question with yes/no answer! (true/false)
    - so it would not make sense to put a number there or "kebab"
  - reporter block doesn't do anything on its own
    - doesn't make sense to connect it after an event

- [link](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1094031872/)

## 2. Planning and coding the tron game

- brainstorm ideas of how they would approach coding the game if I gave them this task (if they were a game dev company)
  - what would they do first?
    - start coding right away
    - first thing about ideas, what should be the order of finishing things
    - clarify, what exactly needs to be done
    - play the game which we want to copy first and then start coding
  - what would be the most important thing for them?
    - focus on the hardest part?
    - make it fun?
    - make it hard enough but not too hard?
    - make it visually nice?

- start working on the game

- we will be making copy of this [link](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/123572843)

### Creation process plan

- make single player everything
  - costume
    - use button
    - make the costume smaller (use alt)
    - add wheels (use shift)
    - make it facing right
  - movement
    - easiest to use events for key presses
  - draw behind itself
    - use color picker so it draws the same color
  - kill when running on some color or on edge
    - watch out: 
      - LET STUDENTS THINK ABOUT IT FIRST
      - when draw right below itself, the tron dies right away!
  - kill on edge
    - maybe use OR is the best (explain) TODO: add example with touching 
  - disallow turn backward 
    - we don't want the player to be able to commit suicide

- copy the first player code and just change as least code as necessary
  - controls
  - messages

- final version [link](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1096648818/)

### Tips

- draggin long reporter/condition blocks into their slot -> place the left corner there

### Improvements

- place setup block inside a function