# Agenda 29.11.2024

## Main goals

- finish tron game
- start some new game
  - something with clones
- maybe some csfield guide activity
  - explain how computers store data?
  - how does it store numbers?
  - use the binary cards

## 0. Binary numbers - how does computer store data

- what are data 
  - images (sprite images), text (player names), numbers (player score)
- how does computer store this data
  - images - does it hold pictures inside?
  - text - is the text written somewhere inside the computer on a super tiny paper
- computer is an electrical device
  - current running through, current not running through -> 1,0
  - two possibilities - bi -> binary (bicycle)

- numeral systems
  - do they know different numeral systems?
    - in history, did humans always count the same?
      - tallying - in prehistoric times (count how many sheep a shepherd has)
      - roman numerals - dates, still used today sometimes
      - decimal system - used today 
    - compare advantages and disadvantages of those systems
    - why do we use decimal system?
  - computer uses something like decimal but only two digits

- game with cards 3 or 4 volutneers (they will be bits) (I can also be one bit)
- we will start flipping the dots from right to left
  - how many dots do they predict the next will have?
- what if we want to show exactly certain number of dots?
  - somebody will give us numbers and we will have to show them
  - everybody will try to guide the rest of the people to show the correct number of dots

## 1. Finishing tron game

- add power ups
  - the object needs to detect when it is picked by a player
  - how to let player know, that he/she should get boosted (from inside the power up code)
  - how to be able to change speed 
    - what determines, how fast the player goes?
    - we cannot just have some number in move -> need to have variable
  - (we need some initial value of the variable!) (let them discover themselves)

- add start and game over buttons
  - what will the button be?
  - how will it detect that it was clicked?
  - how will the button tell players that the game started?
  - how will the players tell the button that they died?

- everybody should finish their game and then post it to the group, we will play each others games

## 2. Pick a new game we will create

- laser gunner or something else