# Agenda for 11.4.2025

## Main goals

- revise where ciphers are used
  - do they know?
  - internet payments, logins

- how to learn by themselves
  - what would they do if I told them to make flappy bird without me helping them in any way?
  - would they use Google? ChatGPT? YouTube?

- competition
  - who can create jumping dot with realistic gravity (I will show them example)
  - bonus: flip gravity when space pressed

- make FlappyBird
  - start with only basic shapes which and implement game mechanics
  - add pretty costumes later when game mechanics finished

## 0. Revise ciphers

- do they remember what we did last time?

- where are ciphers used in real world
  - online banking
    - show example of me ordering Omega 3 (single use credit card could be cool to demonstrate)
    - [alza](https://www.alza.cz/)
  - logging in anywhere
    - Scratch

## 1. Learning resources

- do they sometimes learn stuff themselves from the internet?
  - how to do something in a game? 
  - how to do something for school? (calculate math, answers for homeworks)
  - how to make a game in Scratch?

- where on the internet do they look?
  - Google? ChatGPT? YouTube?

## 2. Competition

- finding on internet how to code something in Scratch
  - create realistic jump like in this example
    - [link](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1160545695/)
  - in teams or alone
  - who can solve the problem fastest, everything is allowed

### Competition hints

- looking on scratch project doesn't tell us which exact piece of code makes the gravity

- website is better
  - show how to use Ctrl + F to look on keyword on webpage

## 3. Realistic jumping

### Gravity basics

- can somebody explain why their Scratch code works?

- now delete the code, we will make it ourselves because it is important to try to understand

- what is speed? how is it measure?

- to program jumping, we first need how to program falling
  - any ideas of how to program that?

- experiment with changing y inside forever
  - different values inside the change y block
  - have a variable for falling speed

### How jump works

- demonstrate on example when I throw something up
  - what is the speed upwards at points in time:
    - at start of throw
    - right before highest point
    - right after highest point
    - before touching ground

- can they use what I explained to program the jump?

### Falling on ground

- how do we know that the Sprite fell on ground?
- what should we do when it falls on the ground?

## 4. Flappy bird

- [link](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1160532844/)

### Player

- use chick for the player
  - remove legs

- we can use gravity and jumping that we learned

## Obstacles

- use building sprite for the obstacle

- easier to first design the obstacles as goals through which the player has to fly
  - later when we are happy with the game mechanics, we replace this with the flappy bird obstacle

- make the obstacle float towards us

- put obstacle back right when it reaches very left

- put the obstacle at random y position

- count score when player hits the goal (flys between obstacle)

- kill player when touches obstacle