Agendas/2025-03-28.md, before:

# 28.3.2025

## Main goals

- work on collaboration and communication skills
  - lego game

## 1. Lego building team game

### Setting
  - 2 teams competing against each other
  - each team has following roles:
    - `describer`
    - `communicator`
    - `builder`
  - there is one prototype lego building that the builder has to build using the available pieces
    - all the pieces necessary are ready to be used for builder
    - all pieces will be used somehow


### Rules by role

#### Describer

- can see:
  - `prototype building`

- movement:
  - `prototype building` <-> `describer-communicator meeting point`
  
- skills:
  - describing precisely (like a programmer)


#### Communicator

- can see:
  - nothing

- movement:
  - `describer-communicator meeting point` <-> `communicator-builder info sharing site`

- skills:
  - memory and speaking skills


#### Builder

- can see:
  - `constructed building`

- movement:
  - none (just sits at the `constructed building`) which is covered so it is invidible from `communicator-builder meeting point`

- skills:
  - understanding instructions (he is the computer that performs commands from the communicator)


### Locations

- team rooms are:
  - the pc-room
  - the studio room

- prototype room is:
  - the elevator room

- the `constructed buildings` will be somewhere in the team rooms far from the doors to the elevator room

- the `prototype building` will be set up between the rooms where the elevator is (above the stairs)
  - it will be somewhere behind so it is not easily visible from the doors of both rooms

- `describer-communicator` meeting points will be the doors between the elevator rooms and the team rooms



## TODOs:

- [ ] think about time limit

- [ ] think about variations

- [ ] think about how to cover the constructed building
- [ ] how to manage space (where to put what)

Commit message:

Finish lego building game prep

Agendas/2025-03-28.md, after:

# 28.3.2025

## Main goals

- work on collaboration and communication skills
  - lego game

## 1. Lego building team game

### Setting
  - 2 teams competing against each other
  - each team has following roles:
    - `describer`
    - `communicator`
    - `builder`
  - there is one prototype lego building that the builder has to build using the available pieces
    - all the pieces necessary are ready to be used for builder
    - all pieces will be used somehow


### Rules by role

#### Describer

- can see:
  - `prototype building`

- movement:
  - `prototype building` <-> `describer-communicator meeting point`
  
- skills:
  - describing precisely (like a programmer)


#### Communicator

- can see:
  - nothing

- movement:
  - `describer-communicator meeting point` <-> `communicator-builder info sharing site`

- skills:
  - memory and speaking skills


#### Builder

- can see:
  - `constructed building`

- movement:
  - none (just sits at the `constructed building`) which is covered so it is invidible from `communicator-builder meeting point`

- skills:
  - understanding instructions (he is the computer that performs commands from the communicator)


### Locations

- team rooms are:
  - the pc-room
  - the studio room

- prototype room is:
  - the elevator room

- the `constructed buildings` will be somewhere in the team rooms far from the doors to the elevator room

- the `prototype building` will be set up between the rooms where the elevator is (above the stairs)
  - it will be somewhere behind so it is not easily visible from the doors of both rooms

- `describer-communicator` meeting points will be the doors between the elevator rooms and the team rooms

### Time limit

- time limit will be between 5 and 10 minutes
  - then it can be extended if both teams agree, otherwise end it

### Game variations

- with less people, there does not have to be the communicator role
  - instead we have `describer-communicator` as one person

- with more people, we can have more `communicators` 

## TODOs:

- [ ] think about how to cover the constructed building
- [ ] how to manage space (where to put what)
