# 28.2.2024

## Main Goals

- get used to programming in Scratch after a pause
- introduce new concepts to new student

## 0. Umime informatiku - extended conditions

- zajimavejsi podminky: 
- pan Blob je zase o neco inteligentnejsi nez drive (asi vystudoval stredni skolu)
- pan Blob uz umi se rozhodovat i:
  - podle toho, kam jde 
  - podle toho, kolik ma uz penizku
- [link](https://www.umimeinformatiku.cz/plosinovka-podminky-rozsirene/44)

- challenge: level 7 !!! (can they think of a different solution than mine?)

## 1. (EXPERIENCED) Challenge to solve: Mouse chasing

- [link](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1140480775/)

- try to solve on their own
- will help if too hard
- try to point towards solution using good questions

## 2. (NOVICES) Obstacle Course

- [link](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1134091882/)

- showcase the end result for motivation
    - we will imagine we are a game studio and want to create this game
    - how will we start?

- create a plan of attack!
  - where should we start?
  - what parts can we work on separately?
  - what makes sense to do first?
  - what can be done later?

- proposed plan:
  - create chicken and its movement
  - create first enemy
    - we want the chicken code now to do two possible things
      - just move
      - move and also say ouch and then appear at start
      - WE WILL NEED IF STATEMENT MAGIC 
    - how to make the enemy move?
      - we need the code for enemy to repeat forever
      - the code of the enemy sometimes has to do three possible things
        - just go forward
        - maybe kill chicken
        - maybe turn the enemy to face other direction
  - create fence
    - how to make the chicken not be able to go through the fence?
    - MAGIC TRICK -> move the chicken forward but if it touches the fence at the end of the movement, teleport it back

## 3. (EXPERIENCED) Kraken attacks!

- make kraken movement more interesting
  - change direction by some random amount every 2 seconds
  - make kraken appear and disappear at intervals
    - use different steps based on Kraken costumes

## 4. (EXPERIENCED) Choose new game to make

- show games from this studio:
  - [link](https://scratch.mit.edu/studios/36367250)
- create one of the games
  - no preparation for me
  - think about what should we start with
  - let them come up with ideas themselves