# 2.6.2025

## Main goals

- demonstrate our cookie clicker programs to new student
- revise basic Scratch concepts on simple program

## 0. Demonstrate cookie clicker programs

- put their programs into our studio [link](https://scratch.mit.edu/studios/35682881)
- everybody will showcase their program
  - describe what it does
  - maybe let somebody else play it
  - do other students have any recommendation about what could be improved in other student's programs?

- optional:
  - if they want to polish their programs, give 15 minutes to finish them

## 1. Riddle - is there something silly about the game we made so far?

- is the game fun all the time?
  - what is weird when we buy too many dogs

- what if we decide to change the price of the cat?
  - riddle: what do I have to do?
  - did I not forget to change anything?
  - what would be a better way so everything changes automatically?

## 2 Introduce Scratch to new student

- how would they describe Scratch in simple words?
  - what games did we do so far?
  - what can he do with it?
  - what do they like about it?
  - what do they don't like about it?

- let him work on animate name project [link](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/1070435542/)

- he can also just walk around during the lesson and see what we do


## 3. Where can they find tutorials

- if they want to become programmers one day, it's good to try to improve in free time
- good skill to be able to learn by themselves
- or when they are too fast and they're getting bored at our lessons

- [link](https://scratch.mit.edu/ideas)
- Ideas page
  - Getting Started Tutorial
    - interactive introduction
    - for total newbies
  - Tutorials Library
    - collection of tutorials
    - also little bit more interesting ones
  - Starter Projects
    - projects from Scratchteam for inspiration
    - they can use them and improve on them

## 4. (OPTIONAL) Game editing challenge - edit this game

- do the following:
  - 1. make all the ships shoot faster shots
  - 2. make ships follow player

- code this simple dodging game [link]()

## 4. Start working on new project

- ideas?
  - geometry dash? (gravity)