Agendas/2025-03-21.md, before:

# 21.3.2025

## Main goals

- participate on the AstroPi challenge
  - experience, what a Python code looks like
    - error messages
    - typing text code

## 0. AstroPi challenge participation

- team code: camp-dour

- objective:
  - create a 8x8 pixelart that will be played on ISS (International Space Station)
  - create variables for colours we will use
  - display an image on Sense HAT
  - use the sensor of the astro pi to sense the color of light on ISS

- result:
  - astronauts will run the program on the ISS
  - receive a certificate with following data:
    - team name
    - team members name
    - map showing a location where ISS was when the program was run
  - I will get an email for each submission

- [link_for_results](https://missions.astro-pi.org/mission)

- introduction:
  - describe what Astro Pi is
    - Raspberry Pi computer (small board with a chip) + Sense HAT (sensors)
    - Sense HAT has:
      - LED matrix
  - the computer is programmed using Python code
    - Python - very popular text based programming language
    - text based programming languages are very strict on the rules of how they should be written

- how to submit:
  - click on submit on bottom right
    - class code + team name
    - add all members (first name, age, gender)

## 1. Tutorial for the AstroPi project:

- [link](https://projects.raspberrypi.org/en/projects/astro-pi-mission-zero)

- TODO: how to export pixilart images to python
  - maybe write a program that will convert it

Commit message:

Create program to convert pixil image to python code

Agendas/2025-03-21.md, after:

# 21.3.2025

## Main goals

- participate on the AstroPi challenge
  - experience, what a Python code looks like
    - error messages
    - typing text code

## 0. AstroPi challenge participation

- class code: camp-dour

- objective:
  - form a team 1-4 people
  - create a 8x8 pixelart that will be played on ISS (International Space Station)
  - create variables for colours we will use
  - display an image on Sense HAT
  - use the sensor of the astro pi to sense the color of light on ISS

- result:
  - astronauts will run the program on the ISS
  - receive a certificate with following data:
    - team name
    - team members name
    - map showing a location where ISS was when the program was run
  - I will get an email for each submission

- [link_for_results](https://missions.astro-pi.org/mission)

- introduction:
  - describe what Astro Pi is
    - Raspberry Pi computer (small board with a chip) + Sense HAT (sensors)
    - Sense HAT has:
      - LED matrix
  - the computer is programmed using Python code
    - Python - very popular text based programming language
    - text based programming languages are very strict on the rules of how they should be written

- how to submit:
  - click on submit on bottom right
    - class code + team name
    - add all members (first name, age, gender)

## 1. Tutorial for the AstroPi project:

- [link](https://projects.raspberrypi.org/en/projects/astro-pi-mission-zero)
- [link](https://missions.astro-pi.org/mz/code_submissions/)

## 2. Preparing the image

- good to use pixilart:
  - [link](https://www.pixilart.com/draw)
  - use Pencil Tool (P) to draw using colors from the color pallete
  - use Select Tool (S) to move around some parts of the picturef
  - use Undo (ctrl + Z) if you make mistakes
  - create your own pallete using + sign on the bottom right
  - use Color Picker Tool (V) to find out, what are the rgb components of a selected color
    - 1. click on the color on the image
    - 2. click on the square color on the bottom left side of the screen
